# Introduction to Ctx42 Testing Libraries

<!-- TOC -->
* [Introduction to Ctx42 Testing Libraries](#introduction-to-ctx42-testing-libraries)
  * [Core Principles: Simplicity and Usability](#core-principles-simplicity-and-usability)
  * [Modular and Extensible Design](#modular-and-extensible-design)
  * [Current Status](#current-status)
<!-- TOC -->

This repository marks the beginning of Ctx42 Testing Libraries, a collection of 
testing and assertion packages poised to help developers approach testing. As 
it develops, it will offer a comprehensive suite of tools designed to make 
testing more efficient, enjoyable, and integral to the development process.

Whether you're a seasoned tester or just starting out, tools in this module is 
being crafted to meet your needs, providing a solid foundation for ensuring 
code reliability in projects of all sizes.

## Core Principles: Simplicity and Usability

At the heart of the module lies a commitment to minimalism and an exceptional
developer experience (DX). By maintaining zero external dependencies, the
framework stays lightweight and fast, free from the potential complexities and
conflicts that third-party libraries can introduce. Our documentation is being
carefully designed to be thorough, clear, and packed with practical examples,
empowering you to master the module with ease. Expect a great DX with features 
like a fluent, chainable API, descriptive error messages for quick debugging, 
all tailored to streamline your testing workflow.

## Modular and Extensible Design

`Xtst` is built as a collection of modular, laser-focused packages, each 
targeting a specific aspect of testing. For instance, you might leverage the 
`assert` package for assertions, the `mock` and `mocker` packages for test 
doubles, or the `tstkit` package to keep your tests readable and minimalistic. 
The modularity lets you customize your testing setup to fit your projectâ€™s 
exact needs, avoiding unnecessary overhead. Beyond customization, the 
extensible architecture invites you to create your own test helpers ensuring.

## Current Status

Currently, we work on adding core building blocks of the testing library.

So far we've completed:

- Package [must](pkg/must) with basic test helpers which panic on error.
- Package [notice](pkg/notice) helping to create and format assertion messages.
- Package [tester](pkg/tester) providing facilities to test `Test Helpers`.

Each of the packages have its own README.md file with documentation, and
`examples_test.go` file with usage examples.
